---
layout: md-layout.liquid
pageTitle: OCSF - Learn OCaml
---

# The Learn-OCaml Technical Platform

Learn-OCaml is an online platform designed to support OCaml teaching:
everything happens in the browser (students do not have to install
OCaml on their machines to use it), and it provides facilities to
reuse, write and deploy auto-graded exercises.

Have a look at our [demo instance](http://learn-ocaml.hackojo.org/).

The platform is completely free software, see the [source code
repository](https://github.com/ocaml-sf/learn-ocaml). We are funding
the continued technical evolution of the platform.

To use the platform, the recommended approach for now is to deploy
your own instance of the platform software -- this is a fairly simple
process, we deploy local instances routinely (for a course, a summer
school, etc). See our
[documentation](https://github.com/ocaml-sf/learn-ocaml/blob/master/docs/index.md)
on how to setup the platform, write auto-graded exercises, and deploy
the platform locally. We are working on creating an instance server
that would make it easy to create new instances without hosting them;
this is still in-progress.

We are also growing an open [corpus of
exercises](https://github.com/ocaml-sf/learn-ocaml-corpus) which you
can pick and reuse for your own teaching. If you develop your own
exercises or teaching material, please consider contributing them to
this open corpus for other teachers to reuse. We have on the occasion
provided financial compensation to teachers creating new, high-quality
exercises; get in touch if you are interested.

The Learn-OCaml software was initially developed by
[OCamlPro](https://www.ocamlpro.com/) for the needs of the OCaml MOOC,
and was later generalized as a versatile OCaml-teaching platform. The
ongoing work of the OCaml Software Foundation on the Learn-OCaml
platform is driven (and, in large part, done directly) by [Yann
RÃ©gis-Gianas](http://yann.regis-gianas.org/).
